 



The facts we found that the crosses symbols inside chinese characters, formed in the shape of tombs, embedded in bronzes etc in ancient china is not unique isolated locally  phenominon. If we compared with egyptians hieroglyphics, we can find followings similarites:

similarities between characters and hieroglyphics(see table)
There exist large mounts of symbols of Cross in hieroglyphics -- which is similar to the one in tbi. (see table)
there exist large mount of similarities among compound characters between TBI and Hieroglyphics. (see table) The compound word can tell that antedating.
no zero concept in numberic system;  both are base-10 numberic system. (see table)
larget mount of symbols showed that they serve a god whose name and nature could not be described for them. (see table)
From the writing development view point, hieroglyphics experiened long time involution process, whereas, although chinese tbi started thousands year later than hieroglyphics, they was created with the short-time re-invetion method.  The hieroglyphics mixed with adultry, idoltry and evils -- which could be one of the reasons eventually lead to the obsoleted by phonetic lanuages. As comparison, obi were relatively clean, remain strong in antedating, and could be remained until today. The unsolved chinese characters could be the key to decode the original meaning in the hieroglyphics. 

The discovery of cross-shape for chinese tombs in Anyang is also not incident in ancient world history. If we visit the historical site of Naqsh-e Rustam located about 12 km northwest of Persepolis, Iran, we can still see the tomb of Darius I (c. 522–486 BC), Xerxes I (c. 486–465 BC), Artaxerxes I (c. 465–424 BC), and Darius II (c. 423–404 BC). They are all at a considerable height above the ground with cross shapes obviously built on purpose -- the combination of cross of the tombs implied the eternal life.

The cross could also be found in many ancient fine artifacts. For example, there is a swastika (cross) in the center of the Samarra bowl (4000 BC), at the Pergamon Museum, Berlin. 



In summary, the crosses symbols we found inside chinese characters, on the shape of tombs, in the bronzes etc in ancient china is not unique isolated locally special phenominon -- it was a global revelation that ancient sages endeavored to express, but can not do, with subconscious, and we totally forgot.



 


























The Babylonians did not technically have a digit for, nor a concept of, the number zero.

Egyptian had served a god whose nature and name had not been revealed to them. Giordano Bruno took this so far as to show that crosses were an Egyptian symbol antedating Christ, and proof of an ur-religion, or universal revelation. Egyptians,

 

It can also be found in Hieroglyphics, pictures in ancient Egypt, the tomb in Iran and other ancient cultures all over the world. The meaning of it is un-speakable but under sub-conciousness.  

 

 

 

 

 

Applying OO method used in TBI to analysis hieroglyphics, we can find that the all heiroglyphics words in system tree are same with TBI.  According to our nake eyes comparion of word by word, we found about 400 words they share the same or similar writing between tbi and hieroglyphics. Hieroglyphics can also be classified into root words (about 230) and compund words (about 6000). The root words also can be classifed into pictograms (about 200 words) and logograms (about only 20 words).

The most significant similarities between them are about the root logogram words of CROSS and SON discussed in TBI logograms.(see tables) If we compare the friends of Cross and friends of son hieroglyphics with those in TBI, many of them can be found perfect matches(table). This can further prove that the method of OOA applied to h is correct. The symbols of cross and son in hieroglyphics not only have similarity in symbols but also have similar meaing internally. Both h and tbi has signigicant oo characteristic.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Greek tradition taught that hieroglyphs were symbolic signs or allegories and not phonetic signs. Then one day in 1798, while General Napoleon Bonaparte was leading his French Republican army into Egypt to occupy it, on accident a lieutenant named Bouchard was supervising fortifications at Rashid (Rosetta),

If we compare TBI with Egyptian hieroglyphics, we can find both words were created with same method. Both languages comes from pitures and symbols. Beside, Internally both shares the same OO features. The method that used in out OOA process for TBI can also be applied on hieroglyphics and we got similar results.

 

 

 
